so this is lenovo's legion seven it's a
product that i think a lot of you guys
were interested in is something that i
was also
anticipating because it's a it's a
product category that lenovo has done
really well
for the past couple of years even the
legion five a product that i reviewed a
couple months ago
is highly recommended but the legion
seven is a little bit different now
this is their top tier stuff this is
like their
their more expensive or most expensive
gaming laptop and it kind of puts it
in the same region or realm as something
like this this is the razer blade
uh this is their 15-inch model and this
is a device that is
similar in terms of product category
right they're both like you know 15
1600 base and they just go up in price
as long as you as you configure it
but they're similar in like height
they're both going for like
thin performance gaming machines the
razer devices
are cooled better they clock these
things slower purposefully so they don't
run super hot and they don't get super
loud
that's how razer has been doing the
razer blades
this year this device does not do that
this is a device that runs hot because
this chassis
is not designed to cool the components
that you can configure
the legion 7 in so as an example this
thing can get up to an 8 core cpu and an
rtx
2080 super max q gpu some very powerful
stuff
and the wattage that those two
components pull is
really high like it gets it gets hot now
lenovo has put a vapor chamber
in some of the higher configured units
in this device so it helps a little
but it still throttles and it's
something that i did not expect coming
from their high end model because the
past two years they did not have
throttling at least not to this degree
on a flagship gaming laptop
now i also mentioned the presence of a
vapor chamber right
but only certain configurations get that
vapor chamber tech like if you get
the eight core cpu you get the vapor
chamber and also if you get certain gpus
that are more powerful
you also get the vapor chamber but the
weird thing is and
this is really weird i actually think
that vapor chamber
is not good i don't think it cools it
particularly well
so on this system i have a 6 core cpu
and the rtx 2080 super max q a very
powerful gpu
but the cpu is just a 6 core cpu it's
the same cpu that's in like the
legion 5 that i tested a while ago that
does not have a vapor chamber
i'm getting worse thermal performance on
this machine
than i am on the legion five and this is
when i'm just
testing the cpu and this is the crazy
thing this is not my first unit
i ordered one from lenovo a month and a
half ago i got it
and i had bad numbers and i thought
there's something wrong with this unit
so i didn't do the review i waited for
an official review unit
it came in i got the same numbers so it
could just be that i got two limbs in a
row
it seems unlikely but it is possible
right but to me
it feels like the vapor chamber tech
that's in here isn't particularly well
done and vapor chambers are often a term
that's used by laptop manufacturers or
just companies in general
to market stuff vapor chambers are
inherently not super special they're
essentially just
fancy heat pipes but they're just shaped
differently
i don't think they did a good vapor
chamber on the legion seven and i hate
to say that because i like the brand i
really like their laptops and for the
past couple of years they made such good
stuff that i can easily recommend openly
recommend
but this device feels like a bit of a
miss just in terms of
thermal performance alone because if
like that's why you buy this stuff right
normally by the expensive stuff because
they're cooling things
better in thinner packages like this but
when it comes to the legion seven this
year it's just got
ok cooling nothing great now the rest of
the device has also been updated this
year they have some rgbs on the back
like that light up quite aggressively
and you got some
front kind of like underglow rgb now all
of this is controllable in software
which we'll get into in a little bit
uh and the keyboard is also a little bit
different i don't like this new keyboard
as much last year's keyboard and the
year before that they just had
the regular layout they didn't have the
10 key on the right but they've added it
this year
and it just makes everything a little
more cramped it's a personal preference
thing some people love
their number pads i don't but the actual
keyboard mechanism and the feel of it
is the same as last year and i actually
like the way that it types
the trackpad is also different this year
as well they removed
the individual buttons like they used to
have buttons you could click like
physical buttons on the left and the
right they've removed that
and now it's like a single trackpad the
screen is
again this is multiple configuration
options so it depends on the one you
actually get
my unit's the 240hz panel it's bright
with good colors it's really nice in
games but i can only speak for this
particular panel i don't know what the
other ones are like
at the top there's a webcam they've
moved it from the bottom so it's now
in a normal position and there's like a
plastic
kind of privacy cover that you can slide
back and forth if you want to
close off that webcam for security so
the thing that kind of defines
the legion seven what differentiates
this machine from let's say the legion
five
it's the build quality right this is a
metal machine metal top surface metal
bottom panel
and the keyboard deck is metal it's just
uh it's a better built machine in terms
of
build quality but i don't know if i
prefer it like all things aside
this is like a it's like a hard metal
it's
probably very durable but the legion
five's got this nice like soft touch
finish a really well-built one
and i kind of like the way that feels
more than this one and also
i don't know like rgbs to me are meaning
less and less right i mean some people
love the look of this stuff but i will
just say from personal experience
you get bored of this stuff pretty
quickly like if that's what you're drawn
to
and you have to pay a huge premium just
for the crazy rgbs
maybe you don't actually need it that's
just my personal opinion
um okay performance on this machine
because it's equipped with such good
stuff
is quite good in games but if you push
it hard enough it will throttle and
you'll notice that cpu speed drop it's
mostly noticeable in like
very demanding games like if you're
playing stuff like overwatch or
like competitive shooters where you're
trying to take advantage of a super fast
screen it's not very noticeable
but if you're pushing i don't know let's
say when cyberpunk comes out i guarantee
that if you push that
game hard on this system you'll notice
the throttling you'll see the frame rate
spike and
that's what happens when you can't cool
something perfectly
so if you take a look at the inside you
can see your vapor chamber you see your
two ram slots your two ssds
as well as your wi-fi card all of them
can be replaced the wi-fi card this year
is an intel ones of the killer stuff
they had last year which is nice
and then you see your large 80 watt hour
battery now this battery took me
several days to test properly because
there's a bug in the software that's
eating battery life really quickly
the lighting software made by corsair
it's called iq
choose through battery life on another
level it's like one percent every minute
and it's not just this device any laptop
out there that's running the current
version of iq
just gets their battery life destroyed
so if you want to test this thing
properly you have to uninstall
corsair iq if you remove it five and a
half hours which is pretty good
and the ac adapter is shrunken down so
last year's was quite large and this
year's is a more
manageable size the ports are laid out
in a similar fashion to last year so a
lot of them are coming out the back
which is nice and they have
some on the side they have two
thunderbolts on the left which is
a lie because there's only one
thunderbolt 3 and the other one's just a
regular usbc
and the build quality on this thing is
good the exterior like the fit and
finish
is on point lenovo usually does a really
good job with it and this is no
exception this is like their
high-end premium laptop so it's done
well my issue with this device
comes from the whole thermal thing not
that it's an awful machine it isn't
it's just that lenovo's usually done
this device really well
like i said in the beginning it's
usually been exceptional something that
stood out as being better than the rest
but this year
i i can't say that so if you're asking
me for a purchase decision like should
you get
the legion seven it pains me to say this
but i would say that this year
i i wouldn't recommend it the legion
five awesome device it doesn't come with
like this kind of higher end
configuration
but i would go for that instead of the
legion seven this year at least from
what i've seen with the vapor chamber
and if you want something that's more
higher end like you want faster gpus or
you want
like a like a metal finish there are so
many other devices now
right that's where part of the stems
from in 2020 there's so much competition
for high-end devices
that this doesn't stick out the way that
the 740 did last year and the 7 30 the
year before that
it looks really cool this is probably
one of the most colorful laptops you can
get on the market
but in terms of just raw performance
it's a bit of a miss this year okay hope
you guys enjoyed this video thumbs if
you liked it subs if you loved it
i'll see you guys next time